---

title: DEFCON 28
layout: full-width
date: August 6-9, 2020

---
# DEFCON 28

## Overview
- 25K to 28K Attendees previous year
- CASH ONLY
- NO pre-registration
- $320 per Badge 
- ONLY ONE BADGE AVAILABLE for Event
- NO DISCOUNTS

## Hours/Schedule
- August 6, 2020 Table setup only
- August 7 & 8, 2020,Vendor can access at 9am, 10am - 7pm (Vendor room is open to public)
- August 9, 2020, Vendor can access at 9am,  10am - 3pm (Vendor room is open to public)


## Project Links

https://defcon.org/index.html

## Goals

1. Include top-level goals of the project in an ordered list
2. Give thought to the ordering of goals. Revenue, attendance, launch date
3. Make sure goals are measurable from undisputed source

## Milestones

- [X] 2020-03-02 ,DEFCON 28 Vendor Application opens
- [X] 2020-03-03, Email sent to Jon to inquiry if he would like to participate. No response
- [X] 2020-03-05, Submission of Vendor Application, [Lisa]
- [X] 2020-03-05, Kevin Sugihara <kevin@infamousdevel.com> Thank you for reaching out. I've received your application and will      reach out shortly after the close of our call for vendors (6/1/20) to let you know if you've been accepted.
- [ ] 2020-04-06, Harrah's Las Vegas reservations https://book.passkey.com/go/SHDEF0, [Mike]
- [ ] 2020-06-01, Application accepted Go or NO Go 
- [ ] 2020 Artwork - (stickers, t-shirts?, postcard) 
- [ ] 2020 Confirm and approve all artwork 
- [ ] 2020 Volunteers identified and approved
- [ ] 2020 All material ordered by the Foundation for delivery to Harrah's 3475 Las Vegas Boulevard South Las Vegas, NV 89109, US

## Leadership

* [Lisa Jones](mailto:lisa.jones@owasp.com?subject=DEFCON%20Project)

## Hotel: (Reservation needed https://book.passkey.com/go/SHDEF0)
```
Harrah's Las Vegas
3475 Las Vegas Boulevard South
Las Vegas, NV 89109, 
```

## Budget - Draft

Description                              | Amount
--------------                           | ----:
**Expenses**                             | 
8x8 inline table*                        | $1170.00 (includes 1 badge)
Badge(s) $320ea.                         | $1920.00 (2019= 4 Volunteers + 2 staff)
Artwork                                  | $1500.00 (2019)
Stickers                                 | $819.00 (2019)
Promotional Merch?                       | $6220.00 (750 t-shirts, <$8 2019)
Tablecloth?                              | $250.00 (estimate)
Postcard & Artwork (Promote San Fran)    | $1000.00 (estimate)
Travel & Hotel                           | $5000.00 (2 staff)


**Total Expenses**    | **$17,879.00**

*All tables will be 6 feet x 30 inches with linens.
*No sponsoring of party at or during event, NO chapter meeting at or during the event.


## Application 2020

---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Lisa Jones <lisa.jones@owasp.com>
Date: Wed, Mar 4, 2020 at 8:04 PM
Subject: DEF CON 28 Vendor Application
To: <vendors@defcon.org>


Business Legal Name: OWASP Foundation
Street Address:  1200-C Agora Drive, #232 Bel Air, MD 21014
Contact Name Prior to the Convention: Lisa Jones 
Contact Email Prior to the Convention: lisa.jones@owasp.com
Phone Number Prior to the Convention: 910-408-2147
Onsite Contact Name, If Different: TBD
Phone Number During Convention, If Different: TBD
Email During the Convention, If Different TBD:

Are you selling items? (Yes or No): No

NOTE: To sell items, sales taxes must be paid onsite to the NV department of Taxation by check (no cash) on Sunday before teardown. The sales tax paperwork will be provided at badge pick up. To claim exempt, you must provide proper proof of non-profit status prior to set up. If applicable, please provide the NV Tax ID Number. Effective January 1, 2020, the sales and use tax rate increases to 8.375%.

What will you be vending? Provide a link to samples, if applicable.
https://owasp.org/projects/

Reason(s) that this vendor/merchandise is appropriate for and adds value to the DEF CON vendor area: We will be providing a give away to individuals that make a donation to the OWASP Foundation.

Are you accepting donations? (Yes or No): Yes
Have you been a vendor at DEF CON before?  
If so, what was your last DC? DefCon 27 and DefCon 26

Please provide a brief, one paragraph blurb to use for publication in the DC program and on the DC web site, if accepted:
The OWASP Foundation is a 501(c)3 nonprofit (whitehat) application security group. Our open-source community projects focus on the security of software such as ZAP (a widely used web page security scanner) & OWASP Top 10 (a direct contributor to PCI). We are a global community of over 275 chapters, and tens of thousands of members, that provides industry-leading educational and training conferences annually.  

Please include a logo for use in the printed program and on the website.  Logo attached.

Provide a specific description of any sort of activities such as signings, prize giveaways (skilled or luck) that could create a line. Do you have an idea on timing? 
Diversity Initiative: (Available to the first "x" number of women to donate to the Foundation).
Giveaway: 
Global AppSec Conference Voucher(s) to the first "X" number of women. ($895.00 value per ticket) 2020 Conferences in Dublin and San Francisco
Travel Assistance Grant(s) worth $ X will also be available to apply for.  
Please give schedule estimates (please include day, approximate time, and duration) and any assistance for line maintenance that may be required. Upon acceptance, we will contact you for a full schedule.  The Diversity Initiative giveaway will start when the vendor hall opens August 7th until the set amount has been given away.  We will not require assistance with line maintenance.  
All individuals that make a Donation to the OWASP Foundation will be given a thank you gift that was specially designed for the DefCon event.  We will also be giving away specially designed stickers for the DefCon event.

Please provide a description or photos of your physical booth. (Table only or built structure) Table and chair; no structure will be built.


Does your booth set up require you to be by a wall or at the end of a row? No

Will you be shipping any pallets? No

Illustration of Different Booth Size Options Available
Examples of booth sizes only, this is NOT vendor room layout.
Prices per space include: 24 Hour Security, 1 Vendor Badge

8x8 inline $1170

IMPORTANT NOTE: The above dimensions are the amount of floor space.
All tables will be 6 feet x 30 inches with linens.

Additional Options
Internet Access 400 Yes/No: No
Power for Booth 250 Yes/No: No
Phone 290 Yes/No: No
Bannerr Hung* 290 Quantity: No
Additional DC Badge 320 Quantity: 6

I will need an invoice to submit to send a payment for the booth and extra tickets if we are chosen.

Thanks for your support. 
Lisa Jones
lisa.jones@owasp.com
The OWASP Foundation
